READ ME For My Web Development Assignment.

The purpose of this project is to create the front of a website, which includes, 4 pages, index.html, item.html, product.html, and cart.html. The website is based on an already-made website which is https://uclan.personalised.clothing/Myshop.aspx. My goal is to be able to use JavaScript, HTML, and CSS, to make a website that is easy to use and accessible for all. The colour scheme is followed by strict university guidelines, for my main colours I have used #007FB0 and #BE1622, red being my primary colour and blue being my secondary colour. I ended up styling my whole website based on just these colours as I thought they went well together and adding any more colour would have ruined it.

index.html is the home page of the website, in this page, I have included 2 videos, one of which is an iframe video and the other being a local video. I have also included 2 photos and some text to fill up the space on the home page. This page also contains a header and a footer for easy navigation.

product.html uses a lot of JavaScript to produce the products on the page. product.html contains 3 sections of content: hoodies, jumpers, and shirts. These products are all stored in arrays and are then added to an ordered list. Each product has a "View Product" button and an "Add To Cart" button, these both have functionality. "View Product" lets you go to the item.html which I will explain later and the "Add To Cart" button lets you bring up a popup that lets you choose the quantity and size of the items and then add it to the cart, you can choose to either, continue shopping and stay on the page or go to cart and go to cart.html to view your basket. This page also has a header and a footer. The header also includes an added feature underneath the header which lets you choose which items you want to view on the screen. you can choose out of all products, hoodies, jumpers, and shirts. For example, you can click on the jumper’s button and it will show you just the jumpers. I found this nicer than using anchors because then the client knows they are just going to see just jumpers.

item.html uses sessionStorage in JavaScript to get the product the user has clicked on to then be able to display it on the screen. item.html includes just one item which can also add to the cart by using the “Add To Cart” button, you are also able to store the size and quantity of the product before you send it to the cart. This page also contains a header and a footer for easy navigation.

cart.html is made up of 3 sections of content, the first being the header above the products that let you know what is in each column, the actual product which is made up of rows, and the amount of rows is determined by how many products are in the basket and then the footer for the products which is made up of the total which is calculated after everything is in the basket and 2 buttons. Within the product rows, it provides you with information like the image, colour, size, price, quantity, and the total price of the product (quantity times price). There is also a delete button that lets you delete products in the basket individually. The 3 buttons in the content footer are: “Empty Basket”, “Update Cart” and “Checkout”. “Empty Basket” lets you empty the full basket and clears all the data from localStorage. “Update Cart” lest you stored the saved quantities of the products and refreshed the screen so that you can now view the updated total. “Checkout” lets you check out and give your details for paying. This doesn’t store any data as this is currently just, the front of the website. This page also contains a header and a footer for easy navigation.

All pages also contain a header and a footer for easy navigation, The header is sticky and available from every view, The collapsible menu becomes a burger menu at 1000px to help with smaller views, but also keep access to these links, easy and efficient. In the footer, there is contact information, links to the other page, and then UCLan's information in case anyone wants further information. The header also includes functionality for the user to see how many products are in their basket and updates every time someone changes a quantity or adds something to the basket.


This project is solely made by me, Alycia Bramall.
